My senior design project is going to primarily revolve around an artificial intelligence performing image recognition. This image recognition is going to provide x/y coordinate data to an Arduino controlled laser pointer with some sort of motor that can move its direction. It is my hope that this project will expand on my Python programming skills as that is the language I plan to primarily use in this project. I also am hoping to gain valuable experience with AI and the training side of things. Lastly, getting hands-on experience with making a physical product that I control via a computer will be a great new learning experience. Overall academically this project is going to expand my knowledge and experience with these concepts and help me really master them.

The way I look at it there are two main halves to this project; The AI side of things and the physical hardware side of things. The artificial intelligence side of things is going to incorporate two different classes I’ve taken, the obvious of which due to the name is CS 4033 AI Principles and Applications. The other class will be CS 2021 Python Programming, Python is my language of choice to program in since taking the course and lucky for me it is also highly supported in the AI community. None of my classes have directly taught me how to do the second part of this, the physical laser control part, however the programming logic will utilize skills learned throughout all of my programming focused curriculum. I am anticipating the AI side of the project to be the majority of work so having multiple classes in that field will be a great help, but undoubtedly I will still have to learn much of this on my own.

Both of the companies I have co-op’ed with have involved primarily front end web-app development using Javascript/HTML/CSS. The first of these was with Siemens PLM where I first learned these technologies. I don’t anticipate the technologies learned at Siemens to play a strong role in this project however I did have multiple high level presentations there and I think this could definitely help when it comes to presenting this project. My second (and current) company is an IoT solutions company called Losant. Losant is a small (~40 employees, ~8 software engineers) startup which has really helped me learn how to play a big role in a code base, expand my code review skills, and my coding prowess in general. Being an IoT company I also have gained some skills around IoT devices which I should be able to use on the physical side of this project. Both companies also used Git, and Losant uses Github which is our repo host of choice for this project.

I am extremely excited for this project as its the first big “choose your own project” assignment I’ve had in a long time. This particular project especially excites me for the AI element. As mentioned before I have taken an AI class however we really didn’t go into modern AI technology/usage which is what I really had hoped I’d get out of that class. I think this project has the potential to scratch that itch and give me the experience and knowledge I want to have in this field. Outside of the learning aspect I think the concept behind this is a really cool, practical idea that will demo very well. Having the physical side in my mind will give me something I can excitedly show anyone “hey watch this, I made that!” which motivates me to do this project and do it well.

The high-level preliminary approach to this will be to first design an AI that can identify balloons using pictures, followed by mapping the balloon centers to x/y coordinates. Once I have this the plan is to build the laser pointer motor/holder, and develop a program which maps these x/y coordinates to commands for the laser pointer holder. Finally will be combining the two/using a webcam to feed images into the AI that feeds commands to the motor/laser pointer. My expected result will be having a system where you can point the webcam at a room with balloons, run the system and have the laser pointer pop the correct balloons based on either color or pattern or symbols. I will know this was a success if I learn how to make a working AI, and if I am able to demo this and get that “wow” reaction out of people.
