## James Garrett - Individual Capstone Assessment

From an academic perspective, my senior design project is the combination of many different technical concepts that I perceive to be of high value in the field of computer science. It makes usage of things like data science, IOT, Rest APIs, and even some computer engineering for the hardware components will be built. It also applies a real-world usage of Artificial Intelligence. I believe that it will greatly impact my own academic development, as it will require me to explore ideas, frameworks, and processes that I do not have much experience in. I also believe it will look great on a resume. All in all, I am excited to apply what I currently know, and to discover what I do not know when it comes time to start building this project.

After four and a half years in college, I have taken many classes that have prepared me for this senior design project. One such class is Python Programming (CS 2021). This class provided me with a good basis on which to stand when developing things using the Python coding language, which is what we plan to use for part of the senior design project. Another class is AI Principles and Applications (CS 4033). This class gave me a decent idea on what it takes to create a functional Artificial Intelligence. The final two classes in my curriculum that I believe hold value for this project are Data Structures (CS 2028C) and Discrete Structures (CS 2071), as they both generally taught me good coding practices.

In total, I have taken on four complete semesters of co-ops at two different companies. The first company was Siemens PLM where I worked as a Software Engineer and Quality Assurance Engineer in the Spring and Fall semesters of 2019. While at Siemens, I acquired a lot of good practice in working with a team of people. Since I was brand-new to the code base, I was constantly asking questions and I very quickly realized how valuable a second opinion on a problem can be. My project partner, (Ian Schuster) and I also worked on the same team at Siemens, so I believe we will work well together for this project. The second company I co-oped at was CADTalk, where I also worked as a Software Engineer and QA Engineer. While I was working at CADTalk, they had me create a Rest API for their products’ release notes. From this project, I gained a lot of experience working with back-end code. I also developed code which made use of Azure API calls to capture data. Then I developed various methods of filtering and processing that data to be uploaded as a "releasenotes.json" file in a database which would be used to present the release note information in a way that would be convenient for a customer to see. I also had to develop the automatic build pipeline for this project, as well as for various other projects. I believe that my experience with building the Rest API is extremely applicable to this project as this project heavily requires the transferring and processing of data for the Artificial Intelligence. I also think we may want a Rest API so that we can have a convenient interface with the machine that is controlling the laser.

My motivation for this project was brought to life organically through my own passion to solve an existing problem. For some back-story: I was on co-op during the COVID quarantine, and I was working from home. I also adopted a cat who required a little more attention than I had the capacity to give her at the time, so I started thinking of a solution. My idea was to create an autonomous laser-pointer toy that could play with my cat while giving me time to focus on my work. I crafted the general basis of this senior design project from that very same idea. However, my project partner and I decided to make the project idea a little more interesting.

My partner and I re-designed the plans I created for the autonomous cat laser to instead be a practical laser-targeting system that can pop balloons. The expected result will be that the Artificial Intelligence will be trained to recognize the general shape and color of a balloon, and the shape of a target that we draw on the balloon. Then, depending on if the balloon fits a specified criterion, the AI will send a command to an Arduino to point the laser at a specific coordinate and pop the balloon. My own contributions will be tracked via how many lines of code I write, and what physical contributions I make by crafting the hardware that will be used in our project. We will know that we are done when we have created a functional, autonomous laser targeting system which can identify balloons of a specified criterion and command the machine to shine the laser at that balloon. We will know that we have done a good job if the system can effectively identify which balloons fit the criterion that we give it, and if the system can pop only those balloons and no others. I am very excited for this project as it seems like a very fun opportunity to gain some experience in concepts that I am interested in!
